# Spherical Harmonic based Anisotropic Point Scatterer Model
Copyright (c) 2021 Eric Huang  
School of Electrical and Computer Engineering  
Georgia Institute of Technology  

The Matlab code associates with the paper "Spherical Harmonic based Anisotropic Point Scatterer Models for Radar Applications using Inverse Optimization".

High performance computing based electromagnetic (EM) emulators are used to simulate real-time complex EM wave interactions between multiple radar targets, transmitters, and receivers. The radar cross section (RCS) of the radar targets are required to be stored as a table; however, the needed storage size increases dramatically with the angle and frequency sampling density. In this paper, we present an innovative approach of constructing a concise spherical harmonic based anisotropic point scatterer model that the emulators can use as part of the computations. The point scatterer model is constructed directly from the precomputed RCS data. First, we use only the monostatic RCS data and compute the spherical harmonic based monostatic point scatterer model by solving a linear least squares problem which has a group sparsity constraint. Then, we further compute the spherical harmonic based bistatic point scatterer model using the full bistatic RCS data. The problem is formulated as a bilinear least squares problem. The problem is solved using the normalized iterative algorithm, which linearly solves two parameters in a back and forth manner. The results show that the point scatterer model can effectively represent the bistatic RCS data of a radar target.

For questions, queries and bug reports, please feel free to contact: huangeric@gatech.edu

## Examples:
To compute the monostatic point scatterer model of the aircraft model, run "/monostatic/run_mono.m". Save the scatterer positions obtained from the monostatic point scatterer model. To compute the bistatic point scatterer model, run "/bistatic/run_bi.m".

## Note:
The code is tested using Matlab R2019b. The spherical harmonic functions are generated by Javier Montalt Tordera (2021). Spherical Harmonics (https://github.com/jmontalt/harmonicY/releases/tag/v2.0.1), GitHub. Retrieved March 19, 2021. The aircraft geometry is obtained from R. Okada, “B787-8 dreamliner.” Online. https://grabcad.com/library/ b787-8-dreamliner-1 Accessed October 27, 2020.
